US. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the

 

and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office
Services
In Re: 21169180 Date: SEP. 08, 2022

Appeal of Vermont Service Center Decision

Form I-129, Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker (Extraordinary Ability — O)

The Petitioner, a skydiving center, seeks to temporarily employ the Beneficiary as a skydiving
instructor, coach, and videographer. To do so, the Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an
O-1 nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability in athletics. This classification is available to individuals
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim
and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 101(a)(15)(O)(i), 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(O)Q).

The Director of the Vermont Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not
contain evidence of the Beneficiary’s receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, at least
three of eight listed categories of documents, or comparable evidence of his eligibility. 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(A)-(C).

In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner’s burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit.
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal.

I. LAW

As relevant here, section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) of the Act establishes O-1 classification for an individual
who has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics that has been
demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim, whose achievements have been
recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and who seeks to enter the United States to
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability. Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
regulations define “extraordinary ability in the field of science, education, business, or athletics” as “a
level of expertise indicating that the person is one of the small percentage who have arisen to the very
top of the field of endeavor.” 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(ii).

Next, DHS regulations set forth alternative evidentiary criteria for establishing a beneficiary’s
sustained acclaim and the recognition of achievements. A petitioner must submit evidence either of
“a major, internationally recognized award, suchas a Nobel Prize,” or of at least three of eight listed
categories of documents. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)@ii)(A)-(B). If the petitioner demonstrates that the

i a

 

i MON a a I a ig I

submit comparable evidence in order to establish the individual’s eligibility. 8 CFR.
§ 214.2(0)(3)Giii(C).

The submission of documents satisfying the initial evidentiary criteria does not, in and of itself,
establish eligibility for O-1 classification. See 59 Fed. Reg. 41818, 41820 (Aug. 15, 1994) (“The
evidence submitted by the petitioner is not the standard for the classification, but merely the
mechanism to establish whether the standard has been met.”). Accordingly, where a petitioner
provides qualifying evidence satisfying the initial evidentiary criteria, we will determine whether the
totality of the record and the quality of the evidence shows sustained national or international acclaim
such that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See
section 101(a)(15)(o)() of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(ii), (iii). !

Il. ANALYSIS

The Beneficiary indicates current employment as a skydiving instructor in Chile since 2019 and
previous experience competing in the sport ir since 2016. The Petitioner seeks to employ
the Beneficiary as a skydiving instructor, coach, and videographer for a period of approximately 43
months.? The Petitioner’s Working Agenda for 2021 to 2024 indicates the Beneficiary’s duties will
include coaching its skydiving students in multiple disciplines and competing in several national
tournaments.

A. Eligibility Claims

Because the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)(/)-(8). Within its initial submission, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary
met four of the cight regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B): awards at 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)(), memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)(2), published material at
8C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)(3), and employment in a critical or essential capacity at 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)\(7). In response to the Director’s request for further evidence (RFE), the
Petitioner requested that the Director consider comparable evidence for one additional criterion,
judging at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)(4).

The Director subsequently denied the petition, determining that the Petitioner established that the
Beneficiary satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)()._ The record indicates that the Beneficiary placed third in the

category at the 20 National Parachuting Championships. Accordingly, the Petitioner
demonstrated that the Benéficiary satisfies this criterion, and we agree with the Director’s findings for
this criterion.

' See also Matter of Chawathe, 25 1&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010), in which we held that, “truth is to be determined not
by the quantity of evidencealonebutby its quality.”

? Pursuant to the regulations at 8 C.F.R. 214.2(0)(6)(iii), an approved petition for a noncitizen classified under section
101(a)(15)(O)(@) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to be necessary to accomplish
the event oractivity, not to exceed 3 years.

On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary’ seligibility for four additional criteria. In addition,
for the first time the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets two further criteria, scholarly
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)(6) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)(8);
however, as the Petitioner did not make these claims before the Director, either at the time it filed the
petition or in response to the Director’s RFE, we will not consider these claims in our adjudication of
this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if “the petitioner
was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the
record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose” and that
“we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings” before the Chief); see also Matter
of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988).

For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets the
requirements of at least three criteria.

B. Evidentiary Criteria

Documentation of the alien’s membership in associations in the field for which
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members as
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields.
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)Gii)(B)(2).

The Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion based upon his membership in the

Parachute Association[_____] and the ____] Parachute FederationL____] his
skydiving qualifications, and his selection to participate in a Panam Sports Organization (PSO) High
Performance Coaches Certificate | training course.

First, regarding the Beneficiary’s memberships, the Petitioner provided the Beneficiary’sL__]
membership card. In addition, it submitted several letters containing information relevant to this
criterion. For instance, a “no objection” letter dated January 2021 fron. =i the

in satisfaction of the consultation requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(5)(ii)(A), also provides that the
Beneficiary is a member of the | An additional letter fromL___| provided two
websites which he asserts contain “criteria for membership and ratings,” but his letter does not mention
the requirements for membership in the organization, nor did the Petitioner provide screenshots of the
websites supporting a claim that thel requires outstanding achievements of its members, as
judged by recognized national or international experts in the Beneficiary’s field or an allied one.

Further, letters from LT an qd representatives of thel__ | confirm the

Beneficiary’s membership in that organization and include some of his competitive achievements in
the sport A leter froml off the

Beneficiary’s employer, mentions the Beneficiary’s “international experience in Championships and

different skydiveassociations or federations,” but does not specify in which associations or federations
the Beneficiary has membership. An additional letter from provides that the
enefisiany is also a board member of but it does not assert that

requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national
or international experts, to be appointed to its board.

membership in associations in the field ror whicn Classification is sougnt, which require outstanding
achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their
disciplines or fields.” Thus, the burden remains with the Petitioner to not only establish the
Beneficiary’s membership but to also demonstrate that those memberships require outstanding
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field__Here, although
the evidence presented confirms the Beneficiary’s membership inL___] and and board
membership in the Petitioner did not point out which, if any,
evidence displays the membership requirements and explain how membership in those organizations
requires outstanding achievements and reflects that judging is comprised of recognized national or
international experts.

 

Next, pertaining to the Beneficiary’s skydiving qualifications, the Petitioner provided documentation
regarding his certifications, ratings, and endorsements, including 2017 Coach Rating Course
completion certificate; 2019 Skydiving Association parachutist Instructor D and AFF and
TA Endorsements; 202 || License D and coach certifications and AFF 1 and TAN | ratings;
2021L___ instructor rating certificate; and International Parachutist Certificate for
Certificate D and Packer B. However, he has not explainedhow achieving those certifications, ratings,
and endorsements conveyed membership in an association, as required by the plain language of the
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iti)(B)(2).

  

Moreover, the Petitioner asserted that the Beneficiary’s selection to participate in a PSO High
Performance Coaches Certificate | training course satisfies this criterion. It provided a letter dated
March 2021 from of the Chilean Skydiving Federation and
member of the Chilean National Olympic Committee, who confirms the Beneficiary’s anticipated
participation in the training course, designed for “coaches, technicians and fitness trainers who work
in high-performance” who are “chosen by [the] National Olympic Committee of each country.” It
also provided promotional material from PSO showing the training course was scheduled for March
to November 2021.3 However, the Petitioner cannot rely on those materials to establish the
Beneficiary’s eligibility at the time of filing this petition in April 2021. A petitioner must establish
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the
filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1); see also Matter of Katigbak,
141I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm’r 1971). Regardless, the Petitioner has not explained how the
Beneficiary’s participation in the training course conveys membership in an association, as required
by the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3 )(iii)(B)(2).

 

The documentation submitted further included general skydiving information, such as an excerpt from
the 2019. Parachute Federation Industry Standard Training Operations Manual (TOM)
pertaining to suggested training for[____] candidates; the table of contents of the 2021 FAI
Sporting Code, Section 5 — Skydiving; an article from https://ww.perrisblog.onchat.io entitled “How
to Become a Skydiving Instructor;” a piece from www.skydivecarolina.com entitled “How Much
Experience Do Tandem Skydive Instructors Have;” and an item from www.skydivecarolina.com

3 The Petitioner also submitted screenshots from www.panamsports.org fora July 2020 course entitled “Sports Psychology

LTT A. Te PN ee be ke ta Te At. KR. Lee kL ed. ek nt a cc ca

and the minimum number oT skydives required Tor each, being 25, OU, ZUU, and OUY, respectively.
However, this evidence does not demonstrate the membership requirements of any associations.

On appeal, the Petitioner_provides letters from skydiving instructor|________] with The
Parachute School of skydiving instructor with

skydiver skydive jump pilot! additional letters from
and and
additional materials from the websites of the As the Petitioner did not present these
documents to the Director in its initial filing or in response to the Director’s RFE, we will not consider
them in our adjudication of this appeal. Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 766; see also Obaighena, 19 I&N
Dec. at 533.

    

       

  

Finally, with respectto the Beneficiary’s third-place finish atthe 201 g___]National Parachuting
Championships, the Petitioner emphasizes that in her letters, thls stated the
Beneficiary’s results were scored “by six L__}rated judges.” However, the Petitioner has not
explained how the Beneficiary achieving third place in a national skydiving championship conveyed
membership in an association, as required by the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)\(2). The Petitioner submitted the same evidence in_ support of the awards
criterion, which was appropriate given the nature of the [| National Parachuting
Championships as a competition in the Beneficiary’s field rather than an association in his field.

For the reasons outlined above, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted documentation
sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion.

Published material in professional or major trade publications or major media about
the alien, relating to the alien’s work in the field for which classification is sought,
which shall include the title, date, and author of such published material, and any
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(ili)(B)(3).

The Director determined that the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient
documentary evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary meets this criterion.*

The Petitioner submitted articles dated between 2016 to 2021 pertaining to the Beneficiary from the
print editions of the magazines|_____| Skydiver Magazine and Parachutist. We find that the
appearance of the Beneficiary’ snameand photograph in the 2019 issueof, LT Skydiver Magazine
does notrise to the level of an article about the Beneficiary. The magazine reported the individual and
team results at the 20 ig National Parachuting Championships. While the article supports the

4 The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, in part, because the articles submitted did not
“identify the beneficiary as a person who has risen to the very top of thefield of skydiving.” However, this consideration
does not relate to whether the Petitioner has met theplain language of this criterion. Ifthe Petitioner had satisfied at kast
three criteria, which it did not, then we would have analyzed the published materials as part of the totality of the evidence
to determine if the Beneficiary’s successes are sufficient to establish that he has extraordinary ability in the field of
endeavor. Although we need not conduct such an analysis in this case, we briefly note that we do not find the record

eg ae a ee ll wt

  

we

Petitioner’s claim of the Beneficiary’s bronze medal at this national event, the Beneficiary was not
identified by name in a caption to the photograph, and the photograph appears to be one of many
photographs of the competition’s individual and team winners. In addition, we note that while the
Beneficiary’s receipt of tandem coach, AFF, and tandem-instructor ratings, and A, C, and D licenses
have been reported in the above-referenced magazines, mere mentions of the Beneficiary’s name in a
list of rating, licensing, or tournament results cannot be considered articles about the Beneficiary.
Articles that are not about a noncitizen do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. Cf Negro-Plumpe v. Okin,
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a
show are not about the actor).

The Petitioner also provided a screenshot dated September 2020 from the Facebook page of The
Rating Center with a photograph of the Beneficiary at his employer, and
the caption “Congratulations to United States Parachute Association
Instructor [the Beneficiary]!” Another screenshot from the Facebook page of the
Parachute Federation dated 2016 contains the Beneficiary’s name anda photographof hima
The Petitioner, however, did not provide supporting evidence indicating that those
Facebook pages or the print editions ofL___]Skydiver Magazine or Parachutist qualify as major
trade publications or major media. Although the Petitioner submitted an email from the editor-
publisher ofL__] Skydiver Magazine, stating that the final print edition of
the magazine in 2020 had an average circulation of 3000, the record does not contain evidence
showing the circulation of Lo | skydiver Magazine relative to othel_____] media or trade
magazines, to demonstrate the publication constitutes a major trade publication or major medium. In
addition, we note that none of the above-mentioned articles identify the author.

   
 
  

Moreover, the Petitioner submitted a YouTube screenshot of a video posted | an
organization that provides skydiving experiences to cancer patients and survivors. The video reflected
a two-minute interview of the Beneficiary in 2020. Although the Petitioner provided a transcription
of the video, it did not demonstrate published material about the Beneficiary relating to his work.
Rather, transcription indicates that the Beneficiary was interviewed about skydive landings. The
Petitioner also did not establish the YouTube channel represents a major medium.

For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion.

Evidence of the alien’s participation ona panel, or individually, as a judge of the work
of others in the same or in an allied field of specialization to that for which
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii(B)(4).

The Petitioner did not initially claim cligibility for this criterion. Within its response to the Director's
RFE, the Petitioner argued that we should consider comparable evidence for this criterion. As
mentioned above, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(C) provides that “Cijf the criteria in
paragraph (0)(3)(iii) of this section do not readily apply to the beneticiary’s occupation, the petitioner
may submit comparable evidence in orderto establish the beneficiary’s cligibility.”5 Thus,a petitioner

 

* Petitioners should submit evidence outlined in the evidentiary criteria if the criteria readily apply to the beneficiary’s
occupation. However, if the petitioner establishes that a particular criterion is not readily applicable to the beneticiary’s

must demonstrate why the regulatory criterion does not pertain to a beneficiary’s occupation and how
the evidence submitted is “comparable” to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R.
§ 214.2(0)(3)(iii).

Within its RFE response, the Petitioner contended that the Beneficiary worked as a judge “with other

world-renowned skydiving judges” in October 2016 when he “was invited to judge other skydiving
athletes alongside EL ane(————dat€ SS
Skydiving Championships.” The Petitioner submitted an email dated October 2016 that appears to be
from Co | addressed to the Beneficiary and others, referencing “the upcoming
Championships” and ‘accommodation for the five ofus. .. for the Saturday night (12th November),”
and stating as follows:

.... [believe registrations have been received for for 4 way, CF (not sure whether 2 or 4 way)
and accuracy. Will confirm the events during the week before the event.

We'll be using InTime so can you please bring a Windows based computer...

Look forward to seeing you atl

The Petitioner also provided several pages from the 2008 | Parachute Federation| _|
Judges’ Handbook, screenshots from the website www. fai.org, and a screenshot that it claims is from
the website asserting that these materials show the judging criteria, and that

and are skydiving judges who are “exceptional in their fields.”

As noted by the Director, in order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary
has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that he actually participated in the
judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. Here, the Petitioner has not
presented corroborating documentation showing that the Beneficiary actually participated in judging
skydiving athletes, and the events_at which the Beneficiary judged, to show that he actually
participated as a judge for the 2016 [State Skydiving Championships, as claimed.

In addition, the Petitioner has notasserted or established that Skydive coaches or instructors are unable
to participate on a panel, or individually, as a judge of the work of others in the same or in an allied
field. The fact that the Beneficiary did not participate in judging is not evidence that the criterion does
notapply to his occupation. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the statements in the letter
of support from —i@d or the screenshots of judging criteria are equivalent to
participation on a panel, or individually, as a judge of the work of others in the same or in an allied
field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that this criterion does not apply to the
Beneficiary’s occupation, nor has it shown that the documentation submitted reflects the same caliber
of experience as participating on a panel, or individually, as a judge of the work of others in the
Beneficiary’s field.

occupation, the petitioner may then use the compamble evidence provision to submit additional evidence that is not
specifically described in that criterion but is comparable to that criterion. See 2 USCIS Policy Manual M.A(O),
https://www.uscis.gov/policy manual.

Ill. CONCLUSION

The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally
recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3){ii1)(A). Further, although the Petitioner
established that the Beneficiary met the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(i1i)(B)(J), it did not
establish that he meets the criteria relating to memberships in associations, published materials, and
judging. Although the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary’s eligibility for an additional criterion on
appeal, relating to having been employed in a critical or essential capacity for distinguished
organizations and establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3)(iii)(B)({7), we need notreach this additional
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(0)(3 \iii)(B), we reserve this issue.6 Consequently, the Petitioner has not established
the Beneficiary's eligibility for the O-1 visa classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in
athletics. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an
independent and alternate basis for the decision.

ORDER: The appeal is dismissed.

6 See INS v. Bagumasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal a gencies are not generally required
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 1&N Dec. 516, 1.7
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible).

